Sig Software presents…Email Effects version 1.6.5IntroductionEmail Effects is a program for getting the most out of email. With it, you can send pictures, drawings and tables with simple plain text. It is also the world's premier ASCII art creator and great for creating vivid comments in source code.Email Effects is being used for greetings cards, signatures, program flow diagrams, maps, chemical structure diagrams, tables, logos, and much, much more.Requirements• An Apple Macintosh, Power Macintosh, iMac, Performa, PowerBook or other MacOS-compatible.• System 7 or later.• For optional Email client integration: Claris Emailer, Eudora, Outlook Express, Mailsmith or PowerMail.Email Effects is also available for Windows 95/98/NT - please check our web site for more details.Getting HelpThere are two sources of help within Email Effects. First is the textual help, available from the Help menu. This contains general information, a section covering each of the tools and details on certain areas of capability. The second source is Active Help, displayed at the bottom of the toolbar, which gives details about the area under the mouse. This can be toggled in the Help menu.Purchasing InformationEmail Effects is freely distributed as trial software. You are permitted to evaluate it for 28 days before discarding it, or purchasing a license.LicensingYou must purchase one license for each computer on which Email Effects is used. Licenses can be purchased with the enclosed Register Email Effects program, using a page on the World Wide Web, or via telephone. Payment may be made by cash, check, VISA, MasterCard or American Express.PricingCurrent pricing is $15 per license. A bundle with a license for TableText ($20 on its own) costs just $29. A bundle with a license for both Email Merge ($30 on its own) and TableText costs just $49 (a $16 saving!). See our web site or the enclosed documentation for more information on TableText, Email Merge and other Sig Software products. For excellent discounts on volume licensing for any product, please contact us at pricing@sigsoftware.com.Purchasing online (easiest)• Click Purchase Online… in the about box or go to http://order.kagi.com/?BX• Wait for your web browser to load up the page.• Select how many of which products you wish to purchase.• Enter your name, address and email address in the areas provided (all are required).• Please enter any additional comments in the space provided.• Follow the instructions on the web page to enter your credit-card details.Purchasing via email• Click Purchase Alternative… in the about box or run the Register Email Effects program.• Enter your name, address and email address in the areas provided (all are required).• Select how many of which products you wish to purchase.• Please enter any additional comments by clicking the speech bubble next to the product name.• Select the VISA, MasterCard or American Express payment method and enter your card details.• Click the Copy… button to copy out the text for emailing.• Create a new email message in your email software.• Choose Paste from the Edit menu.• Address the message to shareware@kagi.com and send it.Purchasing over the telephone• Call (US) 510 658-5244, available 10am to 5pm PST weekdays and at some other times.• Follow the instructions on the telephone.• When asked, specify how many, of which products you wish to purchase.• When asked, state your name, address and email address clearly (all are required).• Please note that telephone orders carry an additional handling charge of $5.Purchasing via fax• Click Purchase Alternative… in the about box or run the Register Email Effects program.• Enter your name, address and email address in the areas provided (all are required).• Select how many of which products you wish to purchase.• Please enter any additional comments by clicking the speech bubble next to the product name.• Select the VISA, MasterCard or American Express payment method and enter your card details.• Click the Print… button to print out the form for faxing.• Fax the printed form to (US) 510 652-6589.Purchasing by mail (slowest)• Click Purchase Alternative… in the about box or run the Register Email Effects program.• Enter your name, address and email address in the areas provided (all are required).• Select how many of which products you wish to purchase.• Please enter any additional comments by clicking the speech bubble next to the product name.• Select the Check, Cash, VISA, MasterCard or American Express payment method.• If you are purchasing by cash, select the currency you wish to pay in.• If you are purchasing by credit-card, enter your card details.• Click the Print… button to print out the form to sent with your payment.• Send to: Kagi, 1442-A Walnut St PMB #392-BX, Berkeley, CA 94709-1405, USA.After you have purchasedShortly after your payment has been processed by Kagi, you will automatically receive an email with the subject Thanks for your Payment confirming your purchase. Shortly thereafter you will be emailed your permanent license code or contacted if there is a problem (a human has to check your details before sending a permanent license). If you wish to trace an order, please contact support@sigsoftware.com.Thank you for reading about Email Effects.© Sig Software — http://www.sigsoftware.com/Any distribution of the Email Effects application must include this file. No responsibility about Email Effects' functionality or integrity is implied. This document and the Email Effects application are copyright of the author.Version 1.6.5 — 27th September 2000• Ported to combined Classic/Carbon source code and released for Mac OS X.• Added support for Bare Bones Mailsmith and CTM Dev PowerMail email clients.• Added support for system themes in toolbar (on OS 8.5 or later, Kaleidoscope savvy).Version 1.6.2 — 17th January 2000• Added better support for Appearance manager, multiple monitors and Navigation Services.• Fixed a file opening bug.Version 1.6 — 10th June 1999• Added Figlet support with separate Figlet Tool.• Improved interface for auto-scrolling, window resizing, drag-and-drop, bucket, cursor, circle and rectangle tools.• Added automatic calculation of best characters for picture conversion.• Added support for live, proportional scrolling and Navigation Services. Version 1.5.5 — 21st August 1998• Added support for Microsoft Outlook Express, change direct to email interface.• Removed extraneous spaces at the end of lines in copied text and direct to email messages. Version 1.5 — 27th April 1998• Added Cursor Tool for easy one-by-one character editing.• Totally new 3D look for toolbar, with Microsoft-style buttons.• Text, tab-delimited table and picture files can be directly opened and placed within a document.• Added control-click support (doesn't require Mac OS 8).Version 1.4 — 14th December 1997• More sophisticated floating selections, with unconstrained movement and better undo.• Instant conversion of tables with customizable ruling setting and column justification.• Picture auto-contrasting, and free resizing in real-time.• Added Invert effect, all effects no longer cause clipping to occur.• Added customizable Message Prefix, to help recipient display email message correctly.Version 1.2 — 14th September 1997• Non-registered version now permits document width of 50 columns, and no longer cuts off designs.• Big Text font pop-up menu, selection auto-shrinking to remove space, accelerating scrolling.• Constrained lines and compound characters in Line Tool (for creating tables), justified text in Text Tool.• Includes extended clip art collection.Version 1.1 — 18th March 1997• Maximum width increased to 500, option to allow non-ASCII characters.• Non-intrusive tips displayed at startup.• Modifier keys for quick swapping between operations.• Simplified registration mechanism.Version 1.0 — 1st February 1997